Metasploit 

It is most widely used exploitation framework. 
It is a set of tools that allow information gathering, scanning, exploitation, exploit development, post-exploitation, and more. 

Main Components of the Metasploit Framework can be summarized as
msfconsole: main command line interface
modules: supporting modules susch as exploits, sanners, payloads etc.
tools: help in vulnerability research, vulnerability assesment or penetration testing. 



Launching metasploit in kali linux

msfconsole 

This will be your main interface to interact with the diffrent modules of the metasploit framework.

Clarifying few recurring concepts 

Exploits: a piece of code that uses vulnerability prsent on the target system

Vulnerability: a design, coding or logic flaws affeting the target system. The exploitation of a vulnerability can result in discolsing a confidential information or allowing the atacker to execute code on the target system. 

Payload: If we want to exploit to have a result we want, we need to use a payload. Payloads are the code that will run on the target system.



Auxilary 
any supporting module, such as scanners, crawlers and fuzzers, can be found here.

Encoders 
will allow you to encode the exploit and payload in the hope that a signature-based antivirus solution may miss them. 

Evasion
while encoders will encode the payload, they should not be considered a direct attempt to envade antivirus software. On the other hand, evasion modules will try that, with more or less success. 

NOPs 
Do nothing. Represented in the intel x86 CPU family, they are represented within the 0*90, following which the CPU will do nothing for one cycle. 

Payloads.
Codes that will run on the target system.

Different ategories of payloads are as follows:
Adapters:
	Wraps single payloads to convert them into diffrent formats. Such as a normal single payload can be wrapped inside a  single powershell command that will execute the payload

Singles:
	Self-Contained payloads that do not need to download an additional component to run.

Stagers:
	Responsible for setting up a connection channel between the metasploit and target system. useful when working with staged payloads.

Stages: 
	Download by stager. This allows you to use laeger sized payloads.

Post:
	Useful for final stage of penetration testing process listed above.


msfconsole can be used just like regular command-line shell.
Common commands are

ls : list the contents of the folder from where msfconsole is run
ping : sent to googke's DNS IP address(8.8.8.8)
ping -c 1 : ( sending only a ping )
clear : clear the screen
help set : for help commands
history : to see earlier typed commands
show : command can be used in any context followed by a mode type
back: leave the context
info : information about any module
search: serach the metasploit framework databases for modules relevent to the given search paramenter.
unset : clear any parameter value
unset all : clear all set parameters
setg : set the values that will be used fot all modules.
unsetg: clear value set by setg
back : leave the exploit context.
session -i : interact with any session.

converting windows from msf6 to msfd expoit (...)

use exploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_enternalblue


Parameters that we will often use 

RHOSTS : Remote Host, or the ip address of the target system. This will support the CIDR (Classless inter-Domain Routing). 
RPORT: Remote Port, the port on the target system the vulnrtable application is running on.
LHOST: Local Host, the attacking machine ip address
LPORT: Local Port, the port you will use for the reverse shell to connect back to. This is the port of attacking machine. 
SESSION: each connection established to the target system using Metasploit will have a session ID. Here we will use this with post-exploitation modules that will connect to the target system using an existing connection.



